# Layouts
-----------

A Layout is a conceptual grouping given to components which serve the purpose of rendering re-usable pieces of UI shared by many pages. An easy example is the header and footer information displayed on many sites: though the body of the page changes often, those elements remain the same.

?>A Layout allows us to define the common elements while leaving a slot (router-view) to inject the actual body of the Page.

* * *

### Technical

To get a Page to use a Layout, edit it’s definition in the **router.ts** file and add the following option:

```
meta: {
  layout: '<layout-name>',
}
```

For example:

```
 routes: [
    {
      path: '/',
      name: 'home',
      component: [...],
      meta: {
        layout: 'two-column',
      },
    },
  ]
```

Above, the Layout refers to a component within the **src/layouts** directory called **two-column**.

A Layout must contain a router-view to display the Page within the area designated for it’s content.

Each generated Layout is contained within it’s own sub-folder within the **src/layouts** directory. The directory contains the following files which each carry out a specific role in developing a Layout:

*   \[layout\].**vue**: This contains the Vue template markup used to implement the structure and layout of a Layout. It is a mix of HTML and special Vue syntaxes which allow declarative databinding and structural manipulation.
    
*   \[layout\].**ts**: This contains the controller which provides the procedural code-behind logical needed to add integrations to a Layout. Through this file you may expose data and handle events generated by Layout elements.
    
*   \[layout\].**scss**: This contains the stylesheet to be applied to the Layout- and that Layout only. The styles within this file are scoped, meaning they cannot be used to target any elements except those defined directly within the \[layout\].vue template file.
    

?>Scoped CSS may seem weird at first because regular CSS operates with global impunity, however it is a great approach for compartmentalizing styles so they do not jump their intended scope and affect other elements. Global level styles can be added in the [Theme](Global-Styles.md) directory.

*   \[layout\].**spec.ts**: This contains the unit-level tests for the Layout. Read the [testing section](Unit-Tests.md) for more details about writing tests.

