# Pages
----------

A Page is a conceptual grouping for Vue Components used in routing. Pages are **not** to be imported by other Pages, Components or Layouts.

A special feature of Pages are that they can benefit from Layouts to automatically add a parent container with common pieces of UI/State that’s shared throughout the application - like Headers and Footers. The [Layouts](Layouts.md) section goes into more detail on this approach.

?> A Page needs to be added to the [Router](Routing.md) before it can be previewed within a web browser.

* * *

### Technical

Each generated Page is contained within it’s own sub-folder within the **src/pages** directory. The directory contains the following files which each carry out a specific role in developing a Page:

*   \[page\].**vue**: This contains the Vue template markup used to implement the structure and layout of a Page. It is a mix of HTML and special Vue syntaxes which allow declarative databinding and structural manipulation.
    
*   \[page\].**ts**: This contains the TypeScript controller which provides the procedural code-behind logical needed to add integrations to a page. Through this file you may expose data and handle events generated by Page elements.
    
*   \[page\].**scss**: This contains the SASS stylesheet to be applied to the page - and that page only. The styles within this file are scoped, meaning they cannot be used to target any elements except those defined directly within the \[page\].vue template file.
    

?> Scoped CSS may seem weird at first because regular CSS operates with global impunity, however it is a great approach for compartmentalizing styles so they do not jump their intended scope and affect other elements. Global level styles can be added in the Theme directory.

*   \[page\].**spec.ts**: This contains the unit-level tests for the page. Read the [testing section](Unit-Tests.md) for more details about writing tests.

